Forked:
this is a port of the synth library to the arduino micro (Atmel atmega 32u4)

Some modification have been made to suits my needs: The goal is to build an monome-like music instrument using adafruit trellis, that is self-sufficient (no need of a software to use it like the real monome, neither a MIDI instrument like the adafruit trellis).

The layout has been changed, to (try to) stick to C way of doing: it has now tree files:
-synth32u4.h (var and func declaration)
-synth32u4.c (functions)
-synth32u4tables.h (tables)

It uses the atmege 32u4 timer 4, that have high speed capabilities, of the 32u4 to generate waveforms. It also uses the PLL prescaller to compute the wave form at a higher frequence.

Some functions have been removed, that I didn't needed, or that I needed to implement another way (the modulation engine is de-implemented).
Others have been added.

The number of channels (not the right/left channels, but those used by the audio mixer to generate the sound) has been ported to 8.

Each note is set to a dedicated channel by a MIDI pitch (0-127, C3 beeing 69), waveform, enveloppe and length.

The play function play one of the 8 channels, and a function enables to know what is the last channel that was played. This way, a note that is beeing played can be played again, without "cutting" the first one

The exemples files are no more good, as I didn't modify them. Anyway, their probably can be used with small modifications, like change library calling, names and which arguments are used in function callings.

Before-fork version:
This is a simple to use 4 polyphonic wavetable synthesizer library for Arduino.

Specs:

20KHz sample rate using approx 45 % of the available CPU time.
Output audio as PWM on pin 11, pin 3 or ad differential signal on both.
Has 5 build in waveforms SINE, RAMP, SAW, SQUARE and NOISE.
Has 4 build in envelopes.
Each of the 4 voices has parameters for Waveform, Pitch (MIDI note or Frequency), Envelope, Duration and modulation
Each voice has trigger functions for simple ot MIDI note trigger.
Timing functions are available for sample rate sync and end-of-envelope detection.


Dzl/Illutron 2014

dzlsevilgeniuslair.blogspot.dk
illutron.dk
